Genomic Data Sience
Genomic is a field of science where the entire genetic material of an organism is examined and interpreted. 
By using genomic information, studies can be conducted in various areas such as understanding a disease, 
examining family trees, personalized treatment, and drug development. 
Due to its stable structure, our DNA can be preserved for centuries under suitable conditions, 
and DNA sequencing can be performed through appropriate purification and sequencing processes. 
This allows the storage of DNA data for hundreds or even millions of years. 
However, this requires a high level of computer power and financial support. 
Additionally, it brings along a high need for data examination, classification, and storage. 
This is where another field of science, data science, comes into play. 
Data science has emerged in recent years to facilitate the analysis of data due to the increasing volume of data and the challenges of examination.
Data science can be studied independently or in collaboration with other fields. 
In this regard, genomic data science can be described as the investigation, classification, and interpretation of genomic data.


Genomik Veri Bilimi
Genomik bir organizmanın tüm genetik materyalinin incelendiği ve yorumlandığı bir bilim alanıdır.
Genomik bilgi kullanılarak, bir hastalığın anlaşılması, soy ağacının incelenmesi, kişiselleştirilmiş tedavi ve ilaç geliştirilmesi gibi alanlarda çalışmalar gerçekleştirilebilir. 
DNA’mız korunaklı bir yapı olduğu için, yüzyıllar boyunca uygun koşullar altında yapısını koruyarak saklanabilir, 
uygun saflaştırma ve dizileme işlemleriyle DNA sıralaması gerçekleştirilebilir. Böylelikle yüzyıllarca hatta milyonlarca yıllık DNA verisi saklanabilir. 
Tabi bu beraberinde yüksek bilgisayar gücü ve finansal destek gerektiriyor.
Ayrıca bu da yüksek bir veri inceleme, sınıflandırma ve saklama ihtiyacını beraberinde getiriyor. 
İşte bu noktada bir başka bilim alanı olan veri bilimine başvurmamızı gerektiriyor. 
Veri bilimi, verilerin artması ve incelemenin zorluğu sebebiyle ortaya çıkmış, 
verilerin daha kolay analizinin gerçekleşmesinin kolaylaştırıldığı son yılların en popüler alanlarından bir tanesi. 
Veri bilimi tek başına incelenebildiği gibi diğer alanlarla da ortak çalışmalar içerisinde bulunabilir. 
Genomik veri bilimini bu noktada, genomik verilerin araştırılması, sınıflandırılması ve yorumlanması şeklinde tarif edebiliriz. 

